## How big was the dream? 
##So I think the original dream clearly was Seshadri's and to an extent, P S Thyagarajan who was my advisor. How big was the dream I think is very difficult to say in retrospect because many things have changed since CMI started. I think I do recognize that Seshadri did want to have a teaching program because when CMI started it was a purely research institute. But what could be the scale in terms of number of faculty, number of students I don't think anybody had a very clear idea. At that time also there were a lot of institutions which were starting. Typically these were being started by senior people who were retiring from their own places and many of them were in very small scale, you know 6-10 faculty. So I don't think at that time we had any idea that it should become so big or so small. I think it was kind of more like an evolving plan. ##What was the vision in mind of the founders of CMI? How much confident they were about the vision? 
##So the vision I think was to create a university like institution as opposed to research institute, like institution which, say IMSC is an example of this. The confidence of course if you have a vision like that you have to have some confidence that it can be done. I think in retrospect the confidence was more probably in Shashadri's mind than in our minds. I do remember that when we started thinking about the teaching program and we were discussing it amongst us the younger faculty there was a lot of worry that this might be something which is something we cannot execute. And I do remember in this conversation strictly that there was 2 or 3 of us I don't remember who maybe Balaji was there and so Shashadri told us more or less, that you have to develop the confidence that you can do it. If you keep doubting it will not happen. So I think that was an important message. I think that somehow strangely for somebody who seemed to be very abstract like Sheshadri it came to him naturally to take risks in this kind of things. So I think that philosophy then I think after that once we got started the teaching program was probably the biggest change in the philosophy or the thinking of CMI. Because till then it was only a research institute, few faculty, PhDs doing very traditional kind of things. But then after that moving to a new campus, developing new types of programs, industry all these things I think became easier to imagine because one experiment had worked. 
##And when CMI started so was there any plan B in the mind of others if it doesn't work? 
##I don't think there was any plan B. So I think everybody had the idea of course that it may not work. For various reasons one most important of course being resources that you know it's not very clear how much a private company would be able to sustain an institution of this kind. 
Come, come. So we have some, be prepared you have to do some answering questions. 
So you had started thinking of mind training. So yeah, so I think when the institute started there was a very real fear or not fear but very real possibility that it was an experiment which need not succeed. So there were always of course possibilities that people would have to, faculty would have to look for other positions and all that. So I don't think it was a conscious. There was no conscious plan B but there was always a subconscious expectation or I would say not even expectation but acceptance that this is not guaranteed to succeed. And in that sense various people did you know think about what would happen if this goes down and all that. But fortunately it did not happen that way. But I don't think there was ever any conscious plan B. Okay. But everybody was, Seshadri of course was by that time he would pass the entire mid-age in any standard sense but most of the other people who joined one thing was that they were selected. Of course as we continue to do based on their performance in other things. So I think everybody who joined had the confidence that if this did not work out they would find something else. At least on the faculty side. The harder thing is always a commitment even if it is only PIC students. It's a commitment to students that if you have vacant students and they are supposed to be doing their work and you cannot finish that then it's a much bigger responsibility. But for the faculty and for the institution as a whole I think it's a smaller risk if it's only a question of people finding other jobs and people could have worked and it's a fortune that it did not come to that. 
##So any institutions or any companies start so there are two types. One is founder and other is finances. So how the initial finances came and how stable it was at that point of time? 
##So the initial finances of course as you know the genesis of CMI is this mode of mathematics so what is called the SPIC science mode. So SPIC is a big petrochemical company. Southern petrochemicals and at that time in the late 1980s they were doing financially quite well because one of the things they make is fertilizers which is of course in heavy demand at any given time. And it was a controlled industry. It was a lot of subsidies. So therefore the company was assured of certain, I mean the government would pay some minimum price and so on. So in fact that was probably the motivation for starting the science foundation. I think SPIC had ambitions to be like you know of course in those days the two industrial houses associated with education and research were Tata's and Birla's because they had institutions in their names. So I think SPIC had ambitions to be in that league. And I think to be fair I think not the specific SPIC company but the family in an extended sense has been involved in education. You know there is this Satyamevalli University which is also started by a branch of that family and so on. So I think there is a history of that community supporting education. So therefore when we started we had the backing of, I mean so the origin of CMI in that school of mathematics there was another division in the SPIC science foundation headed by a person called Dr. S. Patrasanti. So he was, though there were multiple divisions he was kind of a de facto the overall head of the SPIC science foundation. And he assured Seshadri that you know there is a commitment and even if the outcome of this institution is not directly relevant to the parent company there is no issue. They are very keen to do this. So we started with some financial assurance but at a certain scale. Now over 10 years what happened was on one side because of deregulation of the Indian economy and things like fertilizer subsidies being removed the financial stability of SPIC reduced. And on the other side because CMI's ambitions grew to a teaching program and having to sustain a larger size activity our demands grew. So that resulted in the first, so actually the first signs of some kind of uncertainty about the finances actually happened about the time when the UG program was started. So that's when really the mismatch started becoming clear because one was going down, one was going up. And it was clear that they could not sustain that thing. But then fortunately at that time the Sriram group and Raj Pyagajan stepped in. So at opportune times we have always found somebody to help us. But in the beginning I think when it started I think this financial aspect at least at the scale at which CMI was planned was not an issue. Otherwise I don't think it would have started. You can't start with uncertainty. 
##Who were some initial people who joined the vision of Seshadri or with the founders, basically? 
##So you know within CMI or outside CMI? 
##Outside CMI. 
##So outside is difficult to say but within first of all the core faculty of CMI was actually some of it was inherited from IMSC because it was coincided with some uncertainty at IMSC. So Seshadri and Pyagajan of course knew. Now actually regarding this plan B issue which you mentioned earlier. So one thing I should probably mention is that there were some people who were involved in the planning of CMI or in this dealing with uncertainty, who I think consciously stayed back. So among them was Madhuri and Ramanujan and Kamal Rudaya. Because it was felt clearly at that time that the solution is not to evacuate IMSC and create a parallel institution but to keep both and hope that both will sustain and become together more powerful in some sense or more effective than one another. So in that sense there was a plan B not for CMI itself but for the sustainability of the mathematics group that was being built in Chennai. So in that sense implicitly therefore IMSC people were involved and they have been traditionally involved with even the teaching program and building up. So support has always been there from IMSC and right from the beginning even PhD students and all activities in the early days of the computer science group certainly were very pretty back and forth between the two institutions. So within Chennai I think there was a lot of support in these two institutions together. And I think outside also because Seshadri was quite, I mean he had already got his FRS while he was in IMSC. So he was quite recognized as a senior mathematical figure in the Indian community. So in the kind of government circles his name was known. So there was implicit support through individuals who had been in contact with him and with TIFR and all that. So that way it was easy for him to ask people, who had potentially decision making people in the government for support. Not that it came but at least that access was there.
