## So, how many professors who joined CMI and what motivated them to join? Was there a common goal or something else was there? 
##So, number was not very large. I guess in mathematics other than Seshadri and Balaji who was of course a product of the same system. We had this Number-theorist called Anupam Srivastav came and then Pramath Shastri joined soon after that. So, these were some of the initial people. I think many of them joined the mathematics group because of Seshadri's stature. And because they were also of course Anupam Srivastav was from a different area. But I think they had some expectation that this would be something to their liking. There was a lot of uncertainty about the private versus public. So, one thing that Seshadri did was to ensure, that even in those days when there was no funding at all coming from any government source that the salary structure and the designations in CMI would be similar to those of other academic institutions. Because on the other side, the SPIC Science Foundation which we were part of was more like an R&D. So, they were like research managers and things like that. So, it was never to be that way. Computer science, so Jagrajan was the sort of leader of the group. And some of the people who joined here soon after I did. I was the second person I guess to join on the faculty. But then we had Manindra Agarwal and Nitin Soni who joined. And both of them were I mean similar age group to both exactly are in fact my match mates. So, it was a combination of I guess again professional, what should I say, confidence that Jagrajan was again a well established computer scientist. And that fact that he would do something which is generally in the right direction. Of course, both of them for personal reasons soon after that I mean 2-3 years later they left. But I think they left a good mark in terms of their impact. So, in the early years it was little hard to get people to join. So, KV was one of the people who joined soon afterwards. And we had Raghavan who joined in mathematics. Again Raghavan who is now at IMSC. Paramesh Shankaran also joined around that time. But each case was a hard sell in some sense. Because many things had to be right I mean in those days also culturally there was a bigger difference. So, many people who were not from the south or not from Chennai were little apprehensive about settling down here. Especially, I mean specifically, both Milind and Manindra left I think largely because of family constraints. That they would not be able to convince their families to stay here in long-term basis. And the other thing as I said is this you know the fact that it is not a traditional institution. It does not have any guaranteed source of funding, it does not have housing, it does not have all the things that people come to expect. So, now I think the situation these days is more varied. But I think there was only one constraint at that time of academic institutions and CMI was very far from that. So, it was definitely I mean every gain was a big, every hiring was a big gain and every resignation was a big loss. 
##What motivated you to join? Very initially only the idea was there, nothing more than the idea. 
###So, in fact when I applied, I applied to CMI only extensively. So, two of us were graduating from TIFR at the same time Anil Singh and me. And we were wondering whether to apply to Mathematical Science in IIT Bombay. And I just happened to, of course Madhavan was my classmate from in BSc days. So, I came here, I met Tyagu, I gave a talk and it went off very smoothly. And then I, Tyagu sort of at least got talking and at this point there was a mention of probably having a teaching institute and sort of growing this bottom up from researchers into a teaching institute and that sort of fascinated me. So, and of course I knew Madhavan very well and Tyagu also was quite an impressive personality that way. And Seshadri had a very magnetic sort of personality, I think. And so I knew of him through his brother who was a very close friend. And somehow out of his appeal and I said okay. So, I just made my PhD. So, I said okay it's worth taking a chance and jump in and see. And again as Madhavan said I was confident if it does not work out I will always find something else. So, that's not so easy that time. I was very sure. In fact my delivery to academics also was a bit strange. I never thought I would do academics. But I got in and I was quite happy and I said if it does not work out, we will find out something else. But the idea of sort of jumping into a new institution happened and my father was completely surprised that I made this decision. 
##I think those kind of stories. 
##He in fact was straight up, he has been with, he was with the Department of Atomic Energy since 1957. And for him to not apply to a place like IMSC and then get here, he thought it was a little bit foolish. But then I told him this is worth an experiment. I think, if it succeeds, it's great. I think we would be quite happy. And he kept advising me to apply to Math-Science. I said go on another, put a friend of mine in line. Maybe he may not take two of us. But we will continue to work on this. And I got invited to do this. I had a proposition. Madhvan was here, Meena was already here. So, when it, yeah, Milind was already here. Manindra, I knew very well. And in fact when I joined, Manindra and I, we overlapped. And actually, and it was a good sort of academic environment. I would discuss with Manindra quite a lot actually in the initial stages. Learning from each other. And then I would go to Mad Science, I would meet people both industrial and academic, and do other things. The culture was good actually. Somehow at that point I thought Chennai was a very nice place to stay also. Otherwise terrible, but it's a good place. I mean, I could cycle all the way to T Nagar from where I was. And so this, all this seemed curious but attractive. So I said okay, we'll take a chance. As I said I was willing to take a chance. And things, I'm glad things have come out like that. 
##So your parents wanted you to have some kind of job secretary? 
###Yes, yes. Mad Science, 
##you experimented with this idea, a new idea. A new idea. Yes, certainly. So I think most people of that age would probably have advised their children to go for a job. But we were willing to experiment. And at some level I also knew that there is some financial stability there in the back. In case things desperately fail, my father would be able to support me for some time. Not that I needed it, but I was sure that I would get a good job. I was like 100% sure of that. So there was that confidence. And it really seemed like something that would be worthwhile. I mean if we did take off into teaching and so on. Because teaching is something, even in the early stages I thought I could become a good teacher. I would have spent time. 
##So this interview is divided into three parts. One is initial, middle and the end, the future. So we are kind of closing on the initial part. 15 minutes, may be a little. Yes, 18 minutes. 18 minutes. Ok, that is fine.
