##What motivated the initial students to join CMI? It was just the idea. So, how their parents were confident of sending their kids here and how they feel same, what was in their mind, how did they proceed? 
###That is, so in 1998 when we decided to sort of start off the BSc, yeah it was an experiment. We were not sure anybody would apply also actually. But we said, okay, we need to do it, let's do it and let's see. So, we would have, and we were very clear in our minds, we would get even 10 students, we would be very happy actually. We said that is where we could begin. We were anyways, faculty wise not large in numbers, they are very small, but Maths, Science was there always. Yeah, but somehow we all felt that it will, there was a feeling that it should work. Because people would look at the kind of people that are there in the institute and they would join. This is what we felt, but we were not sure. And yeah, so when, so I don't remember the number of people, but maybe close to 150, probably 100, 150, that's all I think we got. We held the exam and some people came up for joining and actually as we were talking to the parents, it became clear to them that we are very committed to what we want to do. And I think some parents were convinced and what certainly helped was that, there was one student who was actually part of the Indian Mathematics Olympiad team and he had decided to join. So, that was a big thing, actually, he just rejoined. That really, I think, and there was some conscious effort by the people who were running the Olympiad teams to try and talk to the people in the camp to join a place like this. And that magic seemed to work and there were a few people responsible for that, maybe in the initial stage. So, certainly I think that really helped. The fact that there were teachers who were actually teaching these Olympiad children and students were generally interested in mathematics and the teachers telling them that no, this is a place we want to join in mathematics, this is the place to be. So, there I think certainly, you know, this one. Yeah, Yogananda. Yogananda, I think he played a very pivotal role, I think we should say this too. I think he was a highly respected teacher for all those children. These were children in their 12th standard and they can be very influenced, actually. And they joined. And PSB joining, I think, made a big difference to the other five. Who also joined. 
##There was one more, I think, Debapriyo. Yeah, so I think there were two out of the six in that batch. I think Debapriyo was also a member of the Olympic team in the Olympiad training camp, at least not the team. Tejaswi was not just a team member but he was a rare Indian Gold medalist in those days in the batch and their team. But yeah, I think Yogananda had really played a really, I would say, very big role in popularizing and publicizing this as an alternative. because Yogananda is the same, roughly, generation as we are of PhD students. So Yogananda had joined IMSC for a PhD about maybe a year or two before I had joined. He was working with Balu. So he knew all of the people at CMI from an early stage, even though he, after his PhD, went on to a different, he didn't stay in Chennai. So to the extent that I remember specifically that Tejaswi had actually joined IIT and he had paid the deposit, which in those days was not as much as it is now but it was a substantial amount of money. It was like 10,000-20,000 rupees. And Seshadri spoke to the director of IIT and they agreed to give the money back. So it was a non-trivial thing for Tejaswi to make this decision and we were luckily, thanks to Seshadri's good connections with the IIT establishment, actually convinced IIT to allow him to not take the seat which he had committed to. And I think, yeah, that impact of that early confidence from the Olympiad students at CMI, I think is really what established its image as something where you should, I mean, if you are able to overcome all your family's apprehensions, it is, academically there is no doubt about it. I think that was established right after, because of this. 
##So we are finished with the dream and initial part. So we will do the middle part. So once the institute started working, what kind of challenges CMI and CMI’s  students faced? 
##So of course on the academic side, there was the obvious challenge, which is that, as the number of students went up. First because when the BSc program was produced with first graduates, we started the MSc program. So that meant of course the number of courses and the variety of courses that we needed to teach, grew and we were obviously not in a position to identify faculty at that speed. So identifying people to come and teach. But there I think one of the things that again held us in good stead even later on was that a number of senior people who had retired. So in those days, you know, Professor Nagarajan had come to help out, Professor Sridharan had come. Then we had Professor Nandgani who had come. So we had a lot of such people who were very well respected academics and professors at other universities. Who again I think partly because Tulsi does these things. So these were people who had really a passion for teaching, passion for students. And now after that, nowadays we still have VV Rao and a number of such people. So I think that helped. But certainly one big challenge was this part, which is how to run the number of courses that we need to run to cater to an expanding program. The other big challenge was infrastructure. Because within the T Nagar building which we were, every time we had to send a standing instruction to the landlords or the supervisor of the building saying anytime any company is vacating, tell us and we will try to grab that space. Because we had no other source of classrooms or other resources and office space. So it was a permanent expansion project. But more and more it was clear that side by side the other thing was students' accommodation. Because it was very clear from the beginning that the majority, if not all of our students are coming from outside Chennai. So we don't really have any day scholars. Everybody is staying. So we had made arrangements to rent houses for them. But just the logistics of that, first of all, renting out to students itself, there is a lot of prejudice amongst people. So finding places where people are willing to rent it out to 4-6 students is one thing. Second thing is just organizing food and other things. We tried some experiments with some centralized food delivery. So that second challenge was to actually address this logistics thing. Of course, getting a campus was a huge financial step which we were not capable of doing. So we had to really work towards convincing our R Thyagarajan who was our main financial source, private source of support. And this was a worthwhile requirement to pursue. So these were the two main things. Funding-wise, of course, in terms of salaries there was always some uncertainty. But already now after the teaching program started, NBHM was supporting. So we were getting some external support from the government plus Thyagarajan's support. So it was actually looking... And at that time, Dr. Anil Kakodkar, when he became the chairman of DAE, he was very supportive. So the DAE support looked quite promising. So we were not so worried about the support for running expenses. But certainly, this organizing the logistics and getting over the limited kind of campus that we had, I think that was the big issue. So something that we should probably add. Just like faculty sort of... Can we meet after? 
##Sure, sure. 
##Just like faculty joined thinking that this is a good experiment to be with. 
##We were very lucky to have staff members also who joined. And who were as sort of passionate about this, as all of us were. So at some point, it became sort of a... Something that we all sort of saw as a dream that we should make. A dream that should succeed. I think almost everybody felt that. This was true of external faculty members like Madan Singh. Retired faculty members who joined. Prior faculty members within the institute. Mad Science people. And also the staff. We were very lucky to have the staff that we had. Rajeshwari, Sripati, who was again a solid rock there. And the way you could communicate with people. As Madhavan said, it was not easy to get people to rent out rooms for 18 year old boys. There were mostly boys at the time. Few girls. It's not easy to convince them to rent out these things. But I think Sripati had agreed the people to talk to them. And convince them that this is something good. And they are actually pursuing mathematics. They are not harrowing boys. All those things also made a big difference. And then people like Rajeshwari and Swapna were also willing to sort of... Who were very keen that people would really want to talk to the parents. Want to talk to the students. Make them comfortable. I mean you also joined in the first batch for the Masters. And I think what really mattered was the way students were treated also. I think that was something different. It had a big impact on the students wanting to join. When it appears to be a friendly environment, not only are the staff friendly, even the teachers are friendly. You can question them. I think those things certainly helped in sort of accelerating the growth. And of course there were other things that sort of played out. I mean Madhavan said, Dr. Anil Kakodkar becoming the chairman. It certainly helped. And they saw value in this whole thing. And of course Seshadri is a very charming figure as I said. And I think he has his way with people. He had a vision and he was able to communicate that vision to a lot of people. Including the staff. Not that he would say anything, I think. Just the fact that he sort of had achieved in some sense the pinnacle of mathematical glory. And the fact that he was dreaming about this, I think helped. 
##Yeah, so I just wanted to add one thing in terms of challenges that you said. So actually this is a non-trivial challenge in itself. Dealing with students. Because till we started a teaching program, we didn't have to deal with, see students come with their own problems which adults don't have. You know one thing is of course they are young and they are away from home. So you also have to deal with anxieties of parents. But they are also confused about maybe different things, cultural differences. So having some people like Rajeshwari and so on, who could relate to them and listen to them and try to suggest to us also needs to be talked to. I think because with a small number of PhD students, these problems are very minor compared to them. Because they are older and their problems are different. They are mostly academic. They don't typically... but here it's really adjustment. Plus of course the logistics is one part of having a hostel. But the fact that there are a reasonable number of young people in one place is guaranteed to throw up some challenges from a day to day basis. So that's something that we had to learn how to do well. And even now it's a problem. ##So once CMI established, everything was going on fine. So did you see any kind of attrition in professors or some staffs or anything? So challenges from that front. And how you got new professors? 
##So I think that even when we moved to this new campus, which was late 2005, we were still struggling on that front. I think that as I said before, you know, in the 90s also every new person we managed to attract to join was a huge success and every person who left was a huge disappointment. And as I said, most people left not fortunately at least because they were dissatisfied with CMI, but because there was usually some extraneous family compulsion that we... It's mostly that they came from a different part of the country and they wanted to go back home. So I would say that, you know, the scale of the faculty at CMI did not really grow much till about 2010 or so. Then at that point, for whatever reason maybe, because I think that, see, moving to this campus, of course on one side was physically useful for us because we had all the facilities that we needed to run the program, to host the students and all that. But I think also it's symbolic that having a campus gives a certain perception to external people, whether they are funding people or whether they are prospective faculty, that this is a slightly more well established... One of the concerns is that where is the basis for this institution. So maybe because of that, but I think there was a bigger jump around 2010, in the two-three years, around the time that batches had joined, you know, that there was a sudden jump and we almost doubled our faculty. So from being somewhere, you know, in the 10 to 15 range, we moved, you know, in the 25 to 30 range. I think that really made... then we became comfortable that, you know, we are going to have enough people around. But till around 2010, I think, it was touch and go in terms of this flow in and flow out and it was very delicate. ##Again, one thing to say was that where faculty who joined us in the initial stages actually stayed on for a long time, even in those northern layers. After in some sense, having stayed on for at least 7-8 years, maybe longer, so in the very initial stages, after I joined, soon after I joined, Kumar joined, Harvindar, who was at the same time, Claire joined and Claire has always been with us, she continues to be with us. Yeah, so as Madhavan said, so and all of them, so again, these are all people almost of the same age as Madhavan and me and again the enthusiasm to sort of, whether it is compared to interacting with students or to teach. So, and their numbers were small, so one could actually, you knew every student almost personally actually. So that certainly helped and then the students also started talking to their youngsters, their batch mates in their schools. So the ball got rolling as far as students were concerned. We had a steady stream of students coming in, there was no problem. But teaching was of course another problem, but we had to sort of deal with a larger and larger number of students, larger and larger number of courses, we need to produce some courses which were out of scope of our expertise actually. But then everybody chipped in. I mean people have taught compilers, people have taught architecture, things are not working at all, but people have managed to teach these things actually. And one thing that one can say is that everybody was confident that, okay, I need to teach it, I have studied it and I will teach it, I will do a good job. I think that capability, I think even, so everybody realized that this is something that could be done. So that helped. And as Madhavan said, I think moving to the campus was a big thing. Moving to the campus was a big thing. In the beginning it was difficult because this campus was way out of the city at that point. So it brought with it different kinds of challenges. People were very used to just walking across the road and going to a restaurant or a place and eating. Now suddenly you have to find a comp, you have to find a canteen, you have to get a canteen to get food, those kinds of things. So there were different challenges. But, yeah, again, it is nice that there was a collective effort to sort of make things happen. I think that was always there. There was attrition, but for different reasons, I think. But there was also a lot of goodwill that we had. Goodwill always in the long run. We had a lot of goodwill from a lot of people, people who even left. There was goodwill on their part to send, to make sure that things are stable here. 
##So, and for that, you need a top talent, right? And for a consistent period of time. So how do you manage that top talent from the student side and the faculty side? So mostly from the student side. Because initially you got a few stars, but how do you manage those stars in the long run and till now? 
##So I think that initial students joining set an expectation, I think. And so therefore, this position of being within the Olympiad community of being a place which people should aspire to go. I think in some sense they advertised it better than anything that we could do. So I still think that most people don't know about CMI. But among the students who are interested in this, they know about it because of their peer groups. I think it is not due to anything effort or talent, but honestly, but it is more due to word of mouth publicity from the student community. Also, I think to a small extent, maybe it helped that around that time is when the internet also picked up. So you had, you know, kind of initial stages of social media, some kind of this Quora like things where people would ask questions and all that. And I think that helps. I mean, it may not always work well, but I think in those more innocent early days, I think it helped to popularize CMI among the people who are interested in it. So I think that having a selection process already, I think guarantees that you will get good people. But the right people with the right interests joined, I think comes from something else. And that we were lucky to have. Again, the numbers that we were looking for and numbers joining were not huge. I mean, even when it went up, it was not more than typically 50-20. I think till, I think even 10 years ago, I think that was the typical size of a UG batch. And MSc batches were, you know, your batch was 5. But it was not very much in double figures even at that time. So the numbers were much smaller. So therefore, the number of people applying was much smaller. But I think the quality and that part was not a problem because the people who were applying were typically people who were motivated, interested. And they were self-selecting in some sense. I don't think we had to give them that. And then among them, we had the luxury of choosing the best. That always was how things worked. 
##And then the other thing that certainly helped was that both the UGs who graduated as well as the PGs who graduated, a large number of them actually went on to do further studies. You see, that makes a big impact on the kind of institute this is. The fact that people are actually going for doing PhDs and they are doing well, you see, that makes a big difference. Going to good places. Then there is a steady, then you can expect that this will continue. Because in some sense, there is a, you have set a certain kind of standard. And then students who observe this say, okay, this is where I want to be. They self-select themselves, actually. So the exam was also sort of slightly different. Not the usual exam. Because we did have a serious part of actually long answers that we would had to correct. We had the luxury of doing it, but we didn't have too many students applying. And then we could actually look carefully. And I think students who were already probably slightly ahead of the curve would apply. And they would self-select themselves. And they would go on to do well. And then next path will naturally follow this. We were lucky in that aspect also. That those days people were actually looking to join higher studies. Not as it is now, where people probably are looking more in terms of jobs. But of course, actually at CMI, the trend continues, that people are, majority of people still go on and study further. But I think that certainly had a big impact. Where the students went after they graduated from CMI. 
##And CMI got that brand name that students go abroad.
##Yes, certainly. Yes, and then the other thing that happened naturally was some of these students coming back. That also happened. And so there again we were very lucky that a good number of our students who went out actually started coming back. And this is something that people observe that CMI students are actually coming back. So that again was a positive feedback. And the other thing that happened sort of organically at that point was that, other UG programs also started. So then there was a, so we were a bit concerned. But CMI still remained the preferred designation actually. So that also helped. You see that despite having other UG programs that people could choose for, still chose CMI. So then it is not very difficult for 11th standard and 12th standard students to continue to say I will go there. Because this is where.. this person went and he had a chance to join IISER. He had a chance to join some other place. But he decided to join here and I will also go there. So I think that also, there were other UG programs but CMI continued to be a preferred destination. And that also, and of course now there is a good healthy competition among all these different UG programs. And it is good that we have finally come to a point where there are a good number of undergraduates who are being trained in this kind of mathematics, this kind of computer science across the country. Now even more institutions than this one could. 
##Now the third important part is financial stability in the long run. From 2000 to let's say, year 2020-2021. So what kind of challenges you faced and how you managed that? There must be something.
##So I think this is still a work in progress. I think initially as I said Dr. Kakodkar became the chairman of DAE. There was a lot of optimism. He himself had kind of a plan to somehow bring CMI within a stable DAE kind of structure. Now for reasons which are not clear to anybody, at various stages these attempts were not completed. So on the one side there was this constant expectation or hope that something like this would happen. And in the absence of that then any funding from the government tends to be on a year to year basis with no guarantee. So we had to manage somehow. But fortunately for a good amount of time, maybe certainly throughout the period that Dr. Kakodkar was in charge, whatever we asked for from DAE, more or less we got. So till about 10 years ago, I think that more or less our entire requirement for running expenditure was coming from a DAE grant. And we didn't really have... So this campus, building it was out of scope of DAE money because they cannot use that money for infrastructure. But so this campus was built with substantial private donations. And so we needed some private donations and some ad hoc things to build up some infrastructure. So we got some project like grants from DST to get all the equipment. I mean one of the things that we did not anticipate is moving from a few rooms in T Nagar to this place was that, we need that many more tables and chairs, that many more computers. I mean it was a big exercise just... It's like you move from a one room house to a ten room house. You know you don't have furniture to set up the place. So those things you can get on a one off basis. But it was really the salaries and the running expenditure that was a problem. Along that time DAE was there. And then slowly around 10 years ago I think the culture of getting money from corporates became a little bit more. So the big thing was of course getting this one big Infosys corpus when CSR first started. So now... Yeah so then there were some further hitches along the way. There was an attempt by DST to support along with DAE. But again because of some... So the problem we have faced with the government promises is that, promises have been very generous. But there are many steps between the promises and the execution and that's very hard to navigate. And especially maybe it's easier to navigate if you are closer to Delhi and you can meet people there. But whatever it is we have had mixed... So one side, DAE had been very supportive to the extent that they were able to... But getting it to become formalized now whether it's a good thing or a bad thing to be part of DAE is a different issue. Possibly some of the things that we are doing would be much more difficult if we had been bound by some governmental regulations. On the other hand some of the anxiety that we would have had about funding may have been less. So it's difficult to say. But I think on the whole it's been a little bit of an experiment. I think that, as we have gone along we have been hit by and taken advantage of changes. So one side the changes have been negative in the sense that the government support in general for... I think these kind of institutions outside the existing commitments they have been reducing. So it has been harder to get money from the government. But fortunately the commitment or the vision of corporates supporting education and generally, you have seen now, private universities not come up. So the idea that all educational institutions need not be fully government supported has become more normal. But still we are not in any way able with our programs how to support ourselves through tuitions or something. I mean the fee that we charge cannot cover more than 10-15% of our requirement. But still even getting to the fact that when we charge some fees for the change. Till then it was seen as an advantage to not charge fees because then the government has a justification to support you. Some point the government started telling even IITs to raise their own resources. Then we were forced to in some sense change our strategy. So it has been that way, I think, running CMI in this direction has been very different from maybe many other similar institutions in the country. Where we have constantly needed to cultivate sources of funding. So far we have managed and we are confident going forward that we have... ...See, I think we are fortunately at a scale where it is possible to do this. I mean if we were very small we would be unsustainable. Nobody would want to fund us. If we are very big then the amount of money we need is very difficult to raise. But in the kind of scale that we are at it is possible to supplement some government commitment with some judicious tapping of private resources. So we have been I think, it is not a design but it has come out that way that we have managed. The other thing is that we have, thanks to this constant worry about it... ...I think we have also been very I would say efficient about our resources. In salaries is one thing where you have to compete. I mean you cannot be offering lower salaries and call people to join. But in other things you know, we use our resources quite too well. So we don't for example just routinely replace equipment unless there is a reason to replace it. And even travel. People need to go for a... ...say one of the big for an institution like ours what do the faculty need, right? So they are not experimentalists. They don't need big equipment or some chemicals or something. They need flexibility about going to visit colleagues, attend conferences, collaborate. So even that money we have not a huge pile of money but people are very cooperative about it. So we don't have any artificial rule saying that one person can only go once a year and it can be... ...so we say you need something you tell us and we feel it is good with you we will provide and people respect that. So I think the same spirit, with which everybody was kind of working, in the initial days throughout setting up this program, I think that spirit continues. That people agree that there are resources which is on a common feature and we will respect that. And not make unreasonable demands and then it works. So I think having this uncertainty over funding has of course been a big headache. But it has also I think shaped somehow the way the institute runs. And I think that going forward I think we see that this goodwill and recognition of the institute... ...I think at the scale will keep this private support. I think it will never be guaranteed but I think it will not be so difficult to continue that support. 
##So maybe one thing we forgot to mention was the support that we got from one particular gentleman actually. Dixit. Professor H.P. Dixit. So in fact when we set out to sort of start the program it was very difficult to figure out who would give the degrees. 
##So our initial stages were being given by BITS. 
##But undergraduate degrees are a bit difficult because every institute has its own way of... ...has its own quality check and so on. So then we were very lucky that Professor Dixit sort of he was the vice-chancellor of the MP Bhoj Open University(MPBOU). And he just loved this idea of researchers teaching children mathematics and neuroscience and setting up a high quality institution. He had great faith in Seshadri and he visited us many times and he felt that this was a wonderful initiative to support. So he gave us in some sense blank papers saying you guys go ahead we will support you. So in the initial stages that's the way it happened. And then he was also very sort of kind to point out to us, that we could apply for a Deemed University status based on what we were already doing. So that again was something that helped. So once you get a UGC status, a status of a university, then even among parents were a bit sort of thinking, wavering this way or that way. The fact that you are actually a UGC recognized institution helps greatly. And there I think, again this support I think, one should actually record it the kind trust and faith we had. I mean again it's the same way that we wanted the institute to succeed and people wanted the institute to succeed. We had no different view of that. That one view actually. 
##How good we are on time?
##It's 34 minutes. 34 and a half was 18 minutes. 
##So you can edit it. Yeah you can edit it. I mean your time. Your time is most important. So your question is that this is what you wanted right? Yeah. The degree part. Yeah so this was the question, "What are the challenges you might face with providing these degrees? How did you make the initial collaboration with the reputed institutes?" 
##So of course, thanks to the fact that people like Seshadri and Jagarajan had come from, I mean Seshadri of course had come from TIFR. He had done, during his PhD he had extensive interactions with the French mathematicians. So that natural connection was there with France in particular and international mathematics in general. So even in the early days of starting even before CMI, within IMSC when Seshadri was there, people used to come from outside India and spend time and give courses. And similarly Thiagarajan moved to IMSC and then to CMI but after spending his entire career in Europe. So he also had a lot of contacts. So at an international level we had through them and the Government also enabled certain things. Like for example in the computer science also in mathematics, the Zindogan Center for joint collaborations to be funded. So then right from the beginning that way we have had a lot of very high profile and illustrious people coming from international institutions to come and spend time. And one of the things that was established at the early start of the teaching program was this formal arrangement with EMS, the Ecole Normale Supérieure in Paris. So that, students from here at the end of the third year could go and spend some time there. Initially it does not work very well decently but some senior students from there would come and teach at least a part of the course or come and get some teaching experience. So I think many of these were already in place because the initial faculty who started, had contacts. And then once that happens then the connections continue. And within India of course we had people coming from other, of course, TIFR and usual mathematics community there was a natural connection. But in for example computer science we had people like Manindra and Bill, who came here and then they went back to IIT Bombay and IIT Kanpur. And of course in IMSC Vinay had come and then he joined IISC. So again that community was quite small. I mean this theoretical computer science community as a number of people was quite small. But we were plugged into that community. So I think among Indian academic institutions also I think it was a very natural connection. So I don't think we had to do anything extra to make it happen. Because there were already connections and the connections through... As people joined they brought their own connections. 
##But I think one thing I should mention is the French connection with the computer scientists sort of strengthened through their civic projects. Both Madhavan and Kumar, the initial days they had a civic project and that really helped. I think because they were doing some fantastic work. So once you start doing work at that international level, I think then you become recognized at all the international forums. And then it becomes sustainable actually. Good work is always something that everybody respects. And I think the French group also realized the quality of work that is coming out of here. And they would also want to collaborate. It's not, it has to happen that way. You can't go on to good work and expect others to join you. So you have to do good work. And then even in the other areas, people were producing really good work. I mean it's not, people were doing good work. And good work coming out from Chennai Mathematical Institute, you see good, look at the top conferences, people were producing papers, writing good papers in top journals. So then the name sort of gets established. It's not very difficult for international people to recognize that here is a good place. And that they are actually doing some good work. And that feeds on itself. 
##And you sustained the student for so long, you need a culture also. So how do you maintain that culture from initial to now and in future also? Because people from various backgrounds will be joining, students, faculty and other staff. 
##Yeah, that is I think a big question. I think initially as KV said, because it was a small place and there was a kind of energy and excitement with building the place. I think a lot of what we see around us, I think even in this campus. The fact that these buildings are now about 17 years old, right, and it doesn't seem like it is such an old. So therefore the maintenance and keeping things looking good cannot happen if people are not involved. So I think everybody who has grown with this institute sees it as a kind of personal involvement. It's like at home, you see a tap leaking you don't expect that somebody in the house will go, you will point it out or you will call the plumber. So from that level, if something is not working properly, anybody who notices it feels both concerned enough and their duty to, I mean they are not trying to fix it, but at least initiate to draw people's attention to it. And it could be at any level. It could be about the way things are, it could be tangible things about things not working, it could be intangible things about better ways to organize. So the more difficult thing is, so people who come, because it's a small institution, we have seen that recent faculty, of course some of our faculty who have joined recently are same alumni, so they already are used to this, but even the other people who have come, I think because it's a small enough group and they see people collaborating and working in a particular way, I think so far we have been fortunate, but I also think it comes off much easier if there are 25 people doing things one way and one person joins. And we are also, to be honest, a little bit conscious about this. When we select people, we try to evaluate of course their academic capabilities, but it's also important in a place like this that their personality should not be, you know, aggressive. So you don't want to have people who are very aggressive and have very strong different points of view. I mean different points of view in a constructive way are good, but in an aggressive and abrasive way are not. So we are, to the extent that you can judge this when you meet somebody for a short time, we are conscious about this. And right now for instance, we need to get some new adjunct people. And the same thing we would like to make sure that, you know, the administration is small, but it works because everybody is willing to do many things. You can't say my job will account, so I will not write a letter because that person is on leave today, you wait till tomorrow. That kind of attitude will not work in a place like this. So we have been consciously telling them, I mean when we, I think, conducted interviews, we made it very clear. The job description is X, but you will have to have some willingness to fill in and spend time. So it's a matter of, I guess, there is some conscious effort, but how much you can control it is difficult. But in a small place, I think, if you don't grow very large, very fast, I think you can do it through some wishious selection. But it's an important point. I think that's something which is not obvious. 
##Yes, certainly. I think, even among the students. I think, very often students tell you within a few months that the fact that you can actually go to class and ask questions without fearing ridicule from the teacher or from your fellow students. I think that sort of sets in some kind of culture as you say, really rightly. And in this culture, students do point out if there is something that they feel is wrong. And I think this is something we should encourage also. It's not that everything can be addressed. Certainly not. Some things have to be addressed the way we think it should be addressed, not the way students think it should be addressed. But nevertheless the fact they feel that they can approach somebody. I think that is something that they probably learn through their peers. The peers tell them, yes, you can actually talk to faculty. They are approachable. And this is something we do try and, we will try and keep up. Numbers are increasing. But nevertheless, we all feel very strongly that it should be a place where everybody feels that there is a personal involvement that is needed for it to sustain the way that you would like it to be sustained. You have seen the institute a certain way. Do you want it to continue that way? Yes. If you want to continue it that way, then I think the fact that everybody feels responsible for it. This should be something that everybody should strive to maintain. And we do try it and touch wood, it will continue that way. 
##So one thing I think I would like to point out is that we did see in the student population a bigger variation in attitudes and behaviours this academic year because of the fact that, there was a discontinuity. See, normally otherwise a student population joins but there is enough of population which has already been there. So the culture of this thing gets propagated much more naturally. Whereas now almost everybody who, I think everybody who don't feel like, so those who are already CMI alumni who rejoined from August 2020 after two years of COVID were new students. So they were all thrown in at different levels, first year, second year, third year, but all were equally unfamiliar with how CMI operates. So some of it was just basic things like how do you get the music club started or whatever. But some of it is, we have been seeing some more, I would say, issues with interpersonal relations and some. So we are hoping that it will stabilize but again fortunately the population is not so large. So the number of such issues are relatively small but I think that it is noticeable to us that we have had to intervene more in such questions. And I think that makes it important that you actually, this has to be a sustained thing. If you have any interruptions, there is a big danger that it will go haywire. And considering the student population of course I think we do not have that much control over everyone. Faculty hiring we can control because we do have a choice. But students who do well in the exam, we are not going to do a personality test. 
##Yeah, this question is coming from the community side. So we are also scaling that we are seeing this kind of cultured new persons, new employees coming. They have a different attitude and all these kinds of things. So we also discussed among ourselves how to maintain this culture. 
##So here I think the alumni can play a really big role I think. 
##how? 
## And how, I think because 'A', you know us very well. A lot of you know us very well. And a lot of you knew know what the culture of the institute. So I think just more frequent interaction with the student group would probably help. Because they would also realize that, you see a certain stake in the institute. Not for personal gains. You have evolved through the system and you have a connection to the system. And if that connect, we try to of course pass it on to the students. But if it comes to the alumni, it's probably a little more natural I think. That students would recognize that look at some point they were like us. And they still feel the connect. So probably there is, so attitudes can be, I mean you don't require much change in attitude. Just a little nudge here and a little nudge there. 
##15 minutes. 15 minutes. Just take another 15 minutes. It's okay? 
##Sure sir, no problem.
##Just a little nudge here and a little nudge there. I think it's enough. We are not talking about ways of changing attitudes. I mean people just don't have to rigidify themselves in certain ways. And I think here the alumni can play a very crucial role.
##Maybe this is one of the reasons I keep coming here. And in fact, today I talked to the other alumni and I think they are also interested. 
##Definitely. I think that is something. 
##In fact, there is a group who are interested in. 
##Yeah. I mean I'm hoping that if this next year will be a little... I mean there will be people who have spent a year and they are kind of imbibing this culture. So the new students joining will have a better sense of what to expect. But yeah, any such positive feedback from alumni, I think we are going the wrong way. 
##And to that, when I come here, I meet all the juniors, seniors, in fact, BSc. This day I meet some random person and asked "How are all things going?". So I found they were saying this-that they came here after COVID and they are still struggling. 
##Yeah, we do see that. I mean some students, in fact, the student who wants to meet me has a case. So some abstract cases, "I'm not doing well I wanted to you about this." So I sense that. And I think it will take some time. And these are things that we cannot also fully understand ourselves. So we can talk them through it and hope that they can solve these issues themselves.
##Maybe when I do this, I can expect that at least my interns, those juniors, maybe they do the same thing as well. I see them over there. 
##Any plans? So how are you scaling the institute in terms of students and campus? Campus is definitely fine. We can talk about that. 
##Yeah, so this is of course now again. So I think that compared to maybe roughly 10 years ago. We have been growing the student population in the individual program. And also we have been, I mean we added this data science program which was not there earlier. And the predecessor was a very up and down with applications of math. We started with 20 students which was good, but then it came down to sometimes like 4 students. So for a while I think we were thinking actively in terms of even for projecting for outside support, in terms of scaling the teaching program by having more students. But there are many infrastructural issues with that. One is that I mean, having gone to slightly larger class sizes, the BSc batch which graduated in 2022 was our largest ever. It was 60 plus. And also because of some courses being between BSc and MSc CS, so some classes were already crossing 60 plus even before that. We have kind of understood that there is a kind of a natural limit in some sense. You know if you go with class sizes beyond 50-60, then the nature of the teaching is very different. Either you have to put double the works between the intersections. Or you have to accept that the kind of education and the kind of student-faculty interaction will be very different, which we don't want. So I think that currently, the other thing is that, the way the public perception is, when people say you should scale up your teaching, they don't mean scale it up like double, they mean like scale it up to 5000-10,000, which is a different kind of institution. So in that sense, though we are a deemed university, I don't think we should and can claim to be a university in the sense of that scale. So I think we should try to stick to what we are good at, which is within a limited domain, do some high quality teaching for a reasonable group. I mean we have enough at least evidence to go back and say that we have placed so many people in good institutions and in good jobs, so that we have had an impact. But I think what we are really now trying with this new land and this new thing is to, I think, revisit our impact in research. So, of course we have had a very successful program so far in terms of purely academic research, which is mainly through publishing papers and conferences and all that. But I think increasingly one needs to diversify that also. And I don't think that we can, because of limitations of other resources, just like we cannot increase the student population arbitrarily, we cannot also arbitrarily increase the faculty. So if we have over 35-40 now, maybe 50 is the most that we can sustain without getting into, I mean to keep it in the sweet spot of being a sustainable size. So we cannot hope to cover too many new areas in that. But we should also, that's why we started a center where we can support a lot of external visitors, who will also interact with our faculty and students, but also be part of a larger contribution to the research community in India, Chennai in particular. I think that's what we really want to look at now, that too. So CMI has a certain visibility, as we have discussed, within a certain group of academics. Through the Data Science program, we have acquired a different type of visibility amongst the industry community. Now we need to somehow broaden this impact and get CMI to a place where it's recognized, it's small in physical size and absolute numbers, but its impact is large enough that it's not difficult to get people to support you, and it has activities which make it stand out. I think so ultimately, Seshadri's goal was to build a kind of institution of world eminence. I think you can be an institution of world eminence without being huge. So I don't think that we want to become huge, because that's not, I think, that will change everything, and it will be a very different kind of institution. So I think we want to keep this kind of family atmosphere, but at the same time, be as impactful as possible. So therefore, I think one way is to increase our interaction with external people beyond what we are doing now, to have a sustained flow of people coming and going and new ideas, but at the same time, not strain our infrastructure too much, so we don't have permanent commitments with this kind of thing, so people come and go, if there's some difficult person, we can not invite them.
##Then that sweet spot will be gone.
##So that's the key now. So I think our current thinking is that how to maximize the impact without changing. See, also changing what is working is also something, you know... So to an extent, the teaching program is working, and we know we are stretched it a little bit, so we know it's limitation. So I think we are happy with this program, and there is no, other than satisfying somebody else's requirement, there is no immediate need for us, we don't see a need to have more students of this type or that type. We want to continue to have good students, but the number is not important to us, if there are 50 data science students or 75 data science students, it's not important to us to get 25 more. Whereas it is important to us to keep the quality of the interaction the same. So I think that way we are happy to keep some things as they are, or keep them in roughly the same way, and try to expand it. 
##So now we are coming to an end. So we started with the 'dream' and 'plan' idea. So how do we are doing all that dream? Are we sticking to that dream we created or we are on that same path? How we are achieving that?
##Yeah, so since as I mentioned before the dream was a little bit abstract. I think, we are doing well in the sense that the dream was to have a combination of high quality research and high quality teaching. And I think we are very much on track and we have done well and I think we are continuing to do so. Perhaps what was not very clear in the beginning was, what should be the scope of this. So for instance, I know that Seshadri with his interest in music was very keen that we should have a strong humanities program. But then that brings in some sense an unsustainable breadth. Like, to hire or these students you have to take. So I think there possibly we will not achieve. I think that it's not realistic to think of that. But within the narrower scope of mathematical sciences, I think we are expanding in the sense that applications of these things, one example being Data Science, is now almost kind of limitless. And there is a lot of other institutions like CMI who are involved in mathematics who are looking to expand into things. I mean for example modeling climate or thanks to pandemic you know public health. So I think that way staying within this our competence but having an impact. Even government, e-governance as they call it. So I think we can have without getting into new areas which we don't have any expertise in, we can still stay within what we are doing and develop a wider footprint. So I think in that sense, I would say that we are still on track. But maybe the details of the goal have become a little more sharp. 
##So that was initially the idea and now the implementation part. So definitely yes. 
##And I think through this FC Kohli Centre hopefully we will have, as Madhavan said, the idea is to have multiple thematic programs and so on. But the thematic programs like as we understand it are mostly mathematical. I mean you could potentially bring in other kinds of subjects also. But in a limited way. But if you do it every year, year on year, then I think there will be a natural impact in that direction in those axes also. So that is another way to look at it. Like we started with the CMI Arts Initiative. And at this point it is well known. So perhaps one could think about doing those kinds of activities also through the FC Kohli Centre. That is a possibility. Where we reach out to say, like Seshadri always wanted to play music, create a humanities program. But we could potentially have some really top notch humanities programs as part of that. That is something that one could still dream about. Hopefully at the end, if we are able to make an impact to a larger body of student community and faculty across the country, which we hope to do through the FC Kohli Centre. Because we want to really keep this as a centre where you would have people coming from faculty members from other institutes also participating as enthusiasts. Because we would like them to do. So they also see, they also feel that they can actually participate in these activities. And enjoy the fruits of the centre of this kind. And also sort of enlarge the student body that is being trained. I think we would get closer to that dream.
##I just wanted to add one more thing. We were talking about scaling the teaching program. So what does scaling the teaching program hope to achieve? I mean obviously the hope is to build a larger pool of manpower. But what we are now thinking that, this larger pool of manpower can be through different avenues. So one of them is if we have this visiting program at the FC Kohli Centre, we will hope to invite. So we are training people at bachelor's, master's level, but there are a number of PhD students. And we hope that PhD students of course will increase as we get more faculty. But through this we can also make it possible for PhD students and Postdocs  from other institutions to come and expand there. But the other thing which I want to mention are about the two things, one, we are hoping to set up some kind of a mathematics museum or an Experience Centre. So we have set aside some space there. So a kind of an exhibit where it's not to see photos of a mathematician. But to come and actually interact with some maybe some physical models or see some simulations or something. So to get school and college children enthusiastic about pursuing mathematics. Now as KV said the good thing we have now is that CMI is not paying this only. There are lots of institutions in the country which are starting programs like this. So if we can drive people indirectly to these programs, we can't absorb all of that. But if we can drive people to these programs by giving them some kind of enthusiasm for mathematics. I think that is also... So we are not in that sense. Expanding the teaching program is one way to do it. But I think we can have an equally large impact by doing things in different dimensions. So I think it's not only our research I'm saying that is coming out of that. I think it's also going to have this impact in terms of capacity for more people taking to mathematics.
##One of their questions I think I missed. So why did you start a Data Science course? What motivated you to start that course? And in future will there be any other similar courses? 
##So this specifically we have already started this Application of Math course with an idea that we should be contributing people with mathematical background to make this. Now that course was a little bit ambitiously pitched at multiple aspects, including finance which required a stronger math background. So we found that somehow it was not, we were not getting the right pool of students or we were tapping into too narrow a pool of students. Then we had some plans along this line but we actually got a UGC review committee which recommended why don't you refocus this thing looking only at the analytics part. So it was partly justified by their motivation although we had already been thinking about this. So that's how we came and then we said okay if we are going to do this then let us rethink the whole target audience. And instead of looking for people who already know this stuff looking only for people with math and stats background, try to make it accessible to a broad spectrum. Because also there will be obviously some programming and this component to it. So look for people either from this background or from engineering background and try to have a bridge at the level of it. So in a sense it came from our failed experimental Applications of Math. Trying to ask ourselves because we had already started through AlgoLabs, some training programs in machine learning for industry and we could see that there is a demand for this coming up. And then restructuring and training was a consequence of our trying to understand where can we go. It was a bit fortunate that our restructuring seemed to have hit the right balance but it was definitely motivated by our failed experiments. So it was not out of the blue in that sense. And more yeah, there are always questions about more such domains, for example people have been talking about cryptography or you know even things related to biology and bioinformatics. But I think 'A' we need to have critical core expertise in that and secondly I think it's not convincing that there is a demand which requires a new program to be started by us. I mean we can push people in that direction but if there are already programs then that should be expected to support them, rather than to undertake our own program. But if something comes up, yes. So when we said we are not going to start, have more students, I meant it in the sense of existing program. But if there is a clear need for a new type of program, we are open to that. 
##So last two questions. At the end what should parents and students expect from CMI? These are students' parents. 
##So I think that they should expect from CMI, of course as KV said , the most important thing that they should expect from CMI is an institution which cares for them. So that we are small enough and we are personalized enough that we will treat every student as an individual and try to bring out. So of course from the professional point of view we are trying to get them to achieve whatever it is that they are interested in, get them to achieve their maximum potential. So I think that is what, but what parents should be conscious about is that it is not like dealing with a very nameless and impersonal large institution. That if there are specific needs or specific concerns, we are there to help. And on the other hand if there are specific abilities, we are there to help. So I think that is what they should be aware of. 
##Yeah, absolutely. I think, and the other thing that, personalized experience is something that certainly we would like to deliver. Whether we will be able to deliver it always and to most students, I don't know, but we do try. And the other thing that I think parents should realize is that, I think when students come in and they have a certain passion, I think when they leave, if they have the same passion, may not be for what they came in for, but if they realize that there is a certain passion and I can pursue this passion in a different direction, that also is good. I think so long as you don't kill passion, I think we will be doing fine. Whether it is passion for mathematics, passion for physics, passion for computer science, or passion for doing something else. Yeah, if the kind of passion that I think most faculty members have in their pursuits, that comes on to students. I think we will be doing well. And I think that will help. So parents can expect that their child will come in with a certain passion, but might go on with a different passion. It is perfectly fine, so long as there is passion in the end. 
##Last question. How will you stay up to date with the latest development in your field? And how will you involve students in those areas? 
##So of course, one of the reasons that Seshadri insisted that they should be active in their own field of research. So for now, still our hiring and our promotions in faculty are only on research. So therefore it is imperative for faculty to stay current in whatever they are doing by interacting with their peers. And therefore a lot of it happens just through the normal process of being a research level in mathematics or computer science. You keep abreast because you are looking at problems which are of current interest and you are interacting with peers. But of course there is also an aspect of looking at new things. So some of it comes from the community. Community starts, like for example, even within computer science, I come from a verification community. But verification is, some people are trying to see machine learning ideas and be adopted and so on. So there is a natural inflow and sometimes you get interested enough in that, you might even change your focus a little bit. But I think largely it is the fact that this is still our defining role. It is still to be a research scientist. And teaching is not there. Teaching is in some sense a by-product. And then I think it is intangible, but I think when you teach from this perspective, you tend to also make remarks or comments or observations on what is otherwise routine in a way which connects it to other things. So students also, when attending this course, they think that course, here a comment here, it connects to there. It also expands their understanding. And then they come and ask us, I would like to do some reading in this or I would like to do a master's thesis in that. And that is how they kind of get an opportunity. And that way this personalised thing, you know, so most likely if somebody comes with a specific request and it is aligned to something, they would normally be amenable to doing this. So I think that, but the main thing is that it is crucial I think that this, there is no, nobody is hired in CIMI to teach. They are all hired to stay active in research. And I think that makes the difference. Any final comments? Tell me. I will start with you. I am glad that we are actually doing this because I think we have always met from there. It will be very nice to record these things. And yeah, so that way I am so new on the first batch because I knew recently very well. And I just hope that other alumni also get as involved I think. I think that is very important. It is good for older people like us to see youngsters like you come back. That is very important. I think that is, it is always nice to find an alumni who have gone on, done very well for themselves. It is sort of, it is gratifying for me of course as an individual. But also the fact that the institute building was not a waste. You have actually generated people who, you have produced people who have as much of a passion for the institute as you have. And I think that is very, very essential. I think, I just hope that people will come forward like this, that you have. And also we have planned certain activities around the alumni conferences. So let us hope that this is some way to sustain the sort of enthusiasm for the institute. Yeah, I certainly second that. So I think that we recently, couple of times, I have had, been talking to people who are interested in supporting CMI. So I think one of the things that I have pointed out is that CMI's greatest asset is not this land or this campus or the buildings, but it is the people. So you cannot build a faculty like this overnight. So no matter how much money you pour into an institution, getting the right people and sustaining that and getting new people is the hardest. And similarly, so I think our greatest asset is certainly the people who work here. But our greatest achievement, I think, is the alumni benefits. So I think they are our greatest advertisement. And I just hope that all of you continue to spread the word. And of course, the new batches will also join the ranks and do as well. As KV said, there is no greater satisfaction. Definitely. And in fact, this story and this will boom outside. We will create a story out of this. On your visual format. This will go on. And maybe we will have a future. Certainly. Because it has given a lot of, what was it behind that? What was the dream and from the dream, where? And sometimes when you are in the middle of it, it is hard to analyze the dream. But in retrospect, you can kind of, maybe it is also a fake story in the sense that it is a bitter story to what happened. But I think a lot of it has reality. I think there was a certain direction and a lot of luck. I think there is no doubt. A lot of things have happened at the right time. And that is helping. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
