 ##I want to say that the different part of the world and in India like, students are given a lot of freedom. And two of the most tough issues like mental health issues and LGBT issues, they are given, they are dealt very well in CMI. Like, they have a counsellor coming every week. And then people from LGBT community, they are not afraid to express themselves here. 
 ##So, how did CMI manage to adapt to that, like this culture and... 
 ##See, that is I think hard to quantify. I think it is possibly just again a coincidence or a thing that the people who were cured from, I mean, when the issues come up, of course, they have to be addressed. But I think the people who have, there were enough people who were sensitive to the need to address it and to come up with, especially the mental health part of it, the fact that we need some, means not just a, you can wish away, that you need some professional support and all that. And in terms of, I think, we have always, because one thing about CMI is, both the faculty and the students are from very different backgrounds, even within each community. So, it is very clear that people come from very different backgrounds. So, there has never been, I think, a fixed mindset that everybody should think that way or this way or that way. So, inclusiveness in that sense, I think, is part of the fact that we all possibly have fairly different cultural backgrounds and therefore we are possibly more happy. But I do not think it is something which, I think it is more fortunate thing among the people who are here that there are enough people who are sensitive to these things and most people are not unhelpful. I mean, it is of that. If the few people who are active take an interest and do something, the other people are not put as a risk. So, that I think is, we are possibly lucky that we have that kind of community. But certainly the fact that there are a few people who are willing to step up and address these issues is very important and we do have those people. So, possibly not, they were not chosen based on those attributes, but it is fortunate that we have them. Yeah, so, I do believe there is a culture of inclusiveness. Now, why that happened and how that happened, I think probably because I think we are, I mean, actually I do believe that we are not very judgmental about people. I think, we do believe that people have the freedom to do what they want and I think majority of us feel so. Now, we may not all agree on all the issues, of course, that is impossible. But I think the fact that I don't judge you also helps, I think. And whether, and I don't judge you whether you do well in academics or you don't do well in academics. Yeah, if you are still here, you are good. Maybe this is not your cup of tea, which is perfectly fine. You will find something else. I think that probably helps and I think, again, we were very lucky in getting the kind of schools we got, who were also very sensitive to these issues, who also were probably not very judgmental. Let's hope it continues. Let's hope that happens. Thank you. Thank you.