 No, certainly I mean now see it takes a while also because the number of students graduating from CMI is quite small. So in fact, when we first thought of the alumni association in after coming to this campus around 2010-11 about 10 years ago, our total alumni strength was still less than 500. So in that sense, if the number of students who is outside is small, obviously only those they come into contact with. But certainly through our alumni now we see a lot of institutions and organizations which are aware of CMI. So therefore, even though they may not be in a position like, you know, IIT has this fortunate thing that they have alumni from many years ago and some or several of them have been successful in the IT industry and they have been able to, you know, personally make a lot of money so that they are able to donate back. So in that kind of literal sense, they can contribute to the institution directly. But I think indirectly the fact that our students are doing well wherever they have gone, both in academia and now more recently through the last 3-4 years in industry also. I think awareness about CMI spreads much faster when it comes from people like our alumni who interact with more people because what we say and do is restricted to the people we know. And as you know, we are not terribly aggressive about publicity and these kind of things. So I think word of mouth and the fact that they are doing well and they are appreciated, obviously then people want to know where do these students come from and can we find more such talent in the future and so on. So that has certainly helped. So my question is regarding physics. So by the name it is a mathematical registration. So how does this BSc Physics course start? So in, of course historically if you look back at the growth of say even 20th century, lot of the mathematics and physics have grown together. So a lot of theoretical physics in the early part of the 20th century benefited from advances in mathematics, even Einstein and all these people. So in that sense there has always been a close link between mathematics and physics. So the idea that pure mathematics is separate from physics is a relatively modern idea. And so even computer science being considered an aspect of mathematics is relatively new. I mean till even few decades back most people thought of computing as more on something to do with electronics and engineering rather than to do with the mathematical side of computing. So now when you say mathematics you could either interpret it in this very narrow fashion or you could look at a wider thing. So computer science had already been accepted fortunately by Seshadri when he started the institution as a valid thing. And in a place like TIFR or IIMSC there are strong theoretical physics groups. So the Institute of Mathematical Sciences is also by name an institute of mathematics but actually has majority of the people in any one given discipline is in physics. So that way moving into physics was not unusual idea. And at some point, so there was a senior colleague Professor Rajasekaran from IIMSC who was keen to do this and Professor Seshadri was also open to this idea. So that is how the physics group started. And then once the physics group start and you start looking for, by that time the teaching program was already there. It is different from maybe pre-teaching program where you can start a research group but have no connection to teaching. But now that there is already a teaching program and then you want to expand by hiring people in a new discipline. It makes sense to ask whether there should be some corresponding outlet for them to teach students in their area. Because otherwise just doing research is not what CMI wanted to do. So in a way it was, I mean the two things went hand in hand. The decision to expand into physics was connected to the fact that physics, theoretical physics is very close to, tied to mathematics. And then once you start that group then it makes sense to start a teaching program in that group. So the work that we do in CMI regarding mathematics, it is regarded globally actually. So how does it, it is there in our physics department? How is the work going on in physics department? So the physics department of course is much smaller both in terms of the number of faculty members because there are only at the moment 6 or 7 of them compared to 15 to 20 in the other two disciplines. And the number of students also who are studying at the bachelor's level is comparatively small. So that way the visibility is probably less in absolute terms. But in terms of the professional visibility, that is the faculty members themselves I think are equally respected and equally prominent in their own disciplines as the other people in mathematics and computer science. So the activity is less because there are fewer in number. And their international standing is no less. As you know we have one person, Professor Arun who has been working on this gravitational waves. And so his work has been highly recognized. We have 2 or 3 people working in string theory which is one of the big areas in theoretical physics. And they are very much a part of both the Indian and international string theory community. So like this I think there is no qualitative difference. It is just the numbers are smaller in physics. So one more question. Like this regarding application of mathematics. So that was, how does it happen? How does EMR happen to start that process? Why does it end up in this? Okay. So I think some, at some point just like we felt that research alone was not a good enough justification, the institution should also do teaching. At some point we also realized that there is a need for inputs from people with mathematical training in different domains. But there is no institution which is really addressing this need. In many departments in India there are so-called applied mathematics courses. But for various reasons these applied mathematics courses have mostly been tailored towards certain kinds of engineering problem, fluid mechanics and so on. Whereas if you look at domains like finance and insurance and all these where you have mathematical models which are not tied to these kind of very limited engineering type of solutions, there is really no appreciation of that. And the pure mathematics students are also not inclined to look at such problems. So then if you want to serve this need, that is there is a need out there perceived in industry and even in other organized, not just in industry but even in government, in public, I mean if you want to manage water resources or if you want to manage traffic or if you want to do climate modeling, who would do all this? So who, where will you get the people? So that was really the intention of starting a course which is aimed at producing students who have a mathematics background but also have an appreciation of real world problems that can be addressed. But one of the domains which was emphasized at that time because it was becoming quite visible in the news was finance. And so therefore there were two broad streams. So one was this mathematical finance and the other was what is now data science but in those days was called analytics and interpretation of data. Sir, why did it got ended? In 2017, it got ended. Yeah, so as I said there were these two streams, mathematical finance and this data science kind of thing. Now as we have seen the data science program can be approached from many different disciplines. So students can take it up either with a background in mathematics or statistics or coming from computational background in engineering and then pick up the relevant because they would have had some exposure to the basic maths but they can top it up in linear algebra, probability and all that. On the other hand, mathematical finance is a much more specialized topic. The applications, I mean the way in which mathematics is used in finance requires a fairly sophisticated level of mathematics. So it requires topics in stochastic calculus and various other higher level topics. So therefore without a BSc in mathematics, it is very hard to reach that level in a master's program. You cannot start from basics and reach that level within. So then the selection process had to be such that students come from a BSc maths background and I think that was the real difficulty because there were not enough students who were in the system in some sense in our BSc programs across the country who would want to take up such a course. It is more likely that somebody coming from a statistics or a mathematics background would like to take it up but they were ruled out because the entrance exam was geared towards BSc mathematics. And more often the students who came from BSc mathematics for this program were really not that keen on the applied or the application of their thing. They were really looking to pursue higher studies after this. So the purpose of training people to go out and take roles in organizations where they could apply their knowledge was also not being. So and the number also was dwindling because initially we were quite good in the first 2 or 3 years we got 10 to 20 students per batch. But then it was coming down to single digits and even those single digit students were mostly looking at PhD as an option. So we were not really serving any real purpose. So then it was suggested that maybe it might be more useful to focus it on data science and drop the mathematical finance thing as a specialization. Because also by then it was also clear that see the other side of the story is if you look at the finance industry, they do not really expect people to come with a background in mathematical finance because they know there are not that many people there. So they are quite happy to take students from diverse backgrounds including IITs and all that and train them. So they are really looking for people with strong quantitative skills and an ability to learn rather than prior knowledge. So these people who have been trained in math finance were anyway not expected to know that much when the job that they took would retrain them. So we said okay those who want to go for finance can still go for finance because the companies do not need them to learn it in MSc. But if you use, by this time also the world of data science had started becoming much wider and the acceptance of machine learning in various industries had also started. So it seemed a much more useful way to redirect this program. And it has turned out that way. Now we get a very strong demand and we do get students from diverse backgrounds. So we can actually make the entrance exam a little bit more open to wider category of students and also the opportunities are now in a wider domain. So I think overall it has been a good transition and from a very I would say too narrow a program to a much more useful program. So data science program, so if we look in the past like what are the programs like mathematics and computer science, mathematics and physics. So there has been in research for quite some time. And then bachelors and masters program started right. So there is this difference in data science. Like we rarely started a masters program. So why is this difference? So one reason is of course that there was a transition from an existing masters program to this program. So that was part of the reason. So there was already a masters program in applications of maths and we wanted to restructure it as a masters in data science. The other thing is that see data science is even now a little bit undefined. I mean what is data science is not very clear. Because you need to know things from different disciplines. So if you start with a bachelor of data science, then it is a little unclear what level you should put the foundational courses and how much you should make applied courses. So it seems for such kind of subjects which are not yet I think fully mature, it is more useful to start where they already have a background in some more traditional area like maths or statistics or some branch of engineering. And then you can use the fact that students have some base knowledge. And then you can be a little bit more selective about what courses you feed. So really it is more practical. I think that maybe you know I know that some colleges have started bachelor's courses in data science. But I think a lot of them are I think the design is very unclear. And I would say the same thing if you look at computer science I think the same thing is true. I think when I studied computer science which was like now of the order of 40 years ago, the B.Tech programs in CS were very varied. What you studied even across IITs was very different. And it was mostly dictated by how the CS group had grown. So if you look at IIT Bombay for instance where I studied, it was mostly populated by people who had come out from electronics, from the electrical. So we did a lot of hardware courses as part of our B.Tech. Other places they would do a lot more courses related to programming or software. But a lot of it was very, what should I say, very applied. And the idea that there are more fundamental principles and you know more advanced things in computing came much later. So I think that in general this is a thing that if a new discipline becomes part of the curriculum, I think it takes a little while for it to settle down and for people to agree what are the basic things that every data scientist must know. And till you can agree on that, it is very hard to set up an undergraduate program. So it is easier to set up a master's program where your scope is limited but also the damage that you do is limited. I mean if you train a student in a wrong way at bachelors, then it takes much harder to recover. Whereas if they do not learn much in the master's but they already have a decent background in bachelors, it is okay. You can kind of live with that. So from that practical point of view also, a master's is more sensible. So is there an idea like maybe after some years we can start a bachelor's program or a research program? Bachelor's program is probably unlikely. Research program is more aligned to what we would like to do. Because really I think we have been thinking about these things in a general sense. So we started with a very small but focused research group. We moved into teaching. We built up from a very small teaching program to a moderate, I would not even say it is large but it is very small but a moderate size teaching program. Now there are two ways one could go. One could take this teaching program and try to make it large. Or you could as you were suggesting take this teaching program and extend the research in institutions which are closer to the teaching program. Making the teaching program large we feel is not going to be the best way of using our the nature of the character of the institute is right now I think defined by the fact that there is a very close interaction between the faculty and the students driven by the fact that the number of students is relatively small. So it is easier to give individual attention. Now if you start, if you move from 250, 300 students to 3000 students then that becomes a challenge because the student, the classes become very large, faculty do not know the students, it becomes an anonymous thing and also the kind of what the faculty get back from teaching is much less. See if I am just teaching 100 people and there is no feedback then I am just saying the same thing again and again. Whereas if I talk to 50 people and somebody asks a question which makes me think about what I am saying, it will sometimes change the way I have understood something and next time around maybe I will explain it differently. So the whole nature of the teaching is I think at the moment it is a certain style of interaction and growing it will not improve. So we are open to having, if like data science if a new area becomes very important, maybe 10 years from now quantum computing will have a similar flavor, we could consider a master's program for a small group in quantum computing. But taking any existing program and expanding it we are not sure. And similarly this bachelor's in data science, maybe if we find a way of actually understanding what should be taught we could consider it. But right now I think that is still probably 10, 20 years away before people can even agree on what should be taught. But research yes, I think already a few people here through interactions with students who have asked questions about thing and wanting some guidance, but also because we do take on projects with industrial projects and so on. And there are students who are genuinely interested who are even in the computer science group. I think the chances that we will slowly develop a research program in data science is very likely. Is there any more other processing working for this kind of, let us say, so biological changes those kind of, any more we are seeing. So we did seriously think for quite a while we were seriously looking at different applications of mathematics which we could get into. So a few were suggested to us. So one was actuarial sciences which is the insurance industry thing. One was biological sciences. One was something to do more maybe towards economics and this kind of thing. So some of these we explored quite seriously. Actuarial sciences for instance we did discuss with some universities which have programs in this and what we understood from talking to them and also talking to people who are in the industry. See actuarial is a bit like chartered accountancy that the degree is not so important as the certification exam and all actuaries, all people who want to work in insurance have to write this professional actuarial exam. So if you were to teach a master's course or something then essentially you would have to, it will be like a training program for the actuarial exam. People are not very interested in learning theory in an open sense. They want to be, so there would not be much interest for us in doing that. So we dropped that idea. Biological sciences we seriously considered. We even spoke to people at NCBS in Bangalore about the possibility of having some kind of collaboration. See one of the limitations there is that there is no strong institution working in biology in Chennai. So there are of course, Madras University has some few department groups, some research labs and all that, but there is no really like the way it is in Bangalore or Hyderabad where you have NCBS or if you have IISC or in Hyderabad you have the centre for CCMB for molecular biology. So these kind of big scale biology research institutions are not there in Chennai. So there are several things. One is that I think it is hard to just learn mathematical biology or computational biology in isolation without talking to biologists because the way that biologists understand biology is always different from the way that we can model it. So there is a limitation in actual thing, you know, collaborative possibilities. And the other thing is that biology is a very, in itself a very vast subject. So if you want to teach mathematics in a serious way or computer science in a serious way and teach biology in a serious way, it is very hard to combine. And many of the people who are actually working in these areas now at a research level, mathematical or computational biology have actually done their basic training and others, they have come from physics or they have come from mathematics or operations research. So they have learnt the necessary biology when they are there. So all these reasons, we did not start any of these, but we are still looking at a few. I mentioned quantum, but crypto is another question whether, you know, whether there is a, see the other reason why we did not take up this mathematical biology thing is that after asking around, it looks like there are very few opportunities other than pure research. See, we thought that there should be opportunities in industry, but there seem to be very limited opportunities for students after doing something like that in terms of taking up jobs. So then again, it would be counterproductive to start a program and then students have very few options to go after that. So that was one other difficulty. For example, from an activity in terms of research, I mean, something like cryptography, security, these are interesting possibilities. Or I mentioned quantum, but again, all these subjects, they are not well defined enough to construct in our viewpoint, construct a program. So data science, we have sort of realized that it is at the intersection of two or three areas and we have put together something and it seems to be at the moment at least something which people in industry are finding useful. But again, where would the people who study crypto or quantum, where would they go, what kind of skills those people will be expecting from them, that is a little bit unclear right now. So if it becomes a little clearer, then we can walk in that direction or somehow expand the MSc, CS program or something to have specializations. So, these are all possibilities, but at the moment, we are not seriously looking at it because we feel the subjects are not stable at the moment. So, one more question is regarding this collaboration between ISA and CMA. See, whenever you think about the good math, you see the stat institutions in India, when you think about CMA and ISA, there have been some extensions, Sivaji has again last year or so. What is the collaboration and what is the effect each other and has something to do with ISA and CMA? Yeah, so I think that, of course, we have benefited from former ISI people being here including Professor Karanthikar, Professor B. V. Rao, and then we have had people who have taught otherwise also, Professor Alladi, Sitaram and so on. So, a number of people who have been in ISI as faculty have come and taught here. But in terms of active collaboration, there seems to be less, I would say, than one would hope. I am not sure whether this is because of distance or whether it is because of people not having enough common interest to start something. But this is, unfortunately, I mean, so CMA and IIMSC, because people are from very similar areas and also it is physically close by and there is a shared history in some sense, the collaboration is there to a reasonable extent. But in general, if you look at it in India, I think collaborations between Indian institutions is much less than collaborations between institutions in India and institutions abroad. So, I do not know whether this is something to do with the fact that, you know, institutions themselves do not encourage this or whether it is something else. But somehow this inter-institution collaboration in India, not just in this particular instance, but even if you look at across IITs, it is very rare to find somebody from IIT Bombay collaborating with somebody from IIT Delhi or IIT Madras. And so it is a sad situation, unfortunately, and I do not know exactly what is the, I mean, there is some sociological issue there. But, so I am not very sure how to, you know, become a little bit more open in that sense. So, like there are lot of research programs on maths, like many professors are working for that, in that domain. But in data science domain, there are lot of area like in LBA and all that. But I can see some lack of research around that topic, like even though professors are not more in the term of industry, with its industry experience rather than having some research experience. So, are we thinking in that direction? No, definitely. See, that is the real, I mean, the real challenge of starting a research program in any area is that you must have obviously faculty who are research oriented. Now, the unfortunate difficulty is that these people who have PhDs and who have research experience in these topics are in very high demand. And it is not just in CMI, almost all academic institutions are facing this problem that they are in very high demand in industry. And they are much higher pay and also, it is not just pay, it is also the nature of the work. So, if you are working in a big company like Google or Facebook or Amazon, you have access to so much more data than you would in any, even in a big university in the US, forget about Indian universities, plus of course, computational resources. So, many people who have done their PhDs and expecting a certain amount of support in terms of these, this kind of infrastructure, find careers in these companies more attractive. And of course, the salary is also always, in industry is always higher, but that is not the only reason. So, there is a huge challenge finding people who are good in these areas. So, we are looking, but it is not easy to find. And the other difficulty that a place like CMI or any place has is that if you want to start a group, then a young person is hesitant to join because there is nobody else. So, they feel that they would be isolated one side, second side maybe they will have a lot of extra responsibilities to initiate some activities. So, really it would be, so it is not a coincidence that both in mathematics and computer science, we started and took off well in CMI. We had really two senior people in Seshadri and Thyagarajan who came. So, they had already established their kind of record in research. And therefore, people were keen to come and work in such a group. So, in physics also as I said because Professor Rajasekaran from IIMSE was involved, it was a way to start. So, there is no such corresponding senior person. So, if we could get somebody, that would be ideal. But, so it has to therefore now, the only other option is that a few people here who are interested in these subjects, who teach in the data science program and whoever, I mean, so it could be Saurish in statistics or it could be KV or myself in machine learning from computer science. So, if a few of us evolve our research in this direction, so that we build up a small group, it is not very specialized, but doing something, then we could hope to get some young people to join and build up a group like that. So, that is what currently we are hoping to do. But, it is a slow process. So, it is not going to happen, I mean we accept that it is going to take time. But, this is a direction in which we are definitely, I mean if we find good people in these areas, we try to invite them to come and see the place. But, more often than not, this is a shortage of supply. So, also there are like some industry research collaboration between CMI and that could happen like between Macrosoft research and UWM. Yeah, definitely. So, these big companies, so we have tried in the past to work a little bit with Microsoft research, not so much with Google research, which is in India relatively more recent, it only started about just I think a year before COVID it started. So, they have of course opportunities for collaboration, but again at the, till now the reason probably there was less collaboration was because the nature of the research that they were doing is more applied than the kind of research that people are used to doing. But, I think now that as I said people have started embarking in this direction. So, KV does have one collaborator, CMI alumnus Amit Deshpande who is there at Microsoft research. So, they do, they have jointly supervised couple of PhD students who have worked here. So, I think it will happen slowly. Outside these two or three, the other place where we have had some success not in machine learning is with TCS research, which more in terms of verification and software engineering and so on. So, there are only, but Indian industry I think if you look at R&D as you know this kind of research which is more open ended and more academic in style, there are only one or two companies like this which are actually doing this. Other people, for other people research is usually I mean in name, but they are very focused on some very short term goals for their own company. So, that and their frustration is that you will start doing something and then for two or three months later even before you have really got started they will have cancelled the project saying that this is no longer of interest to us. So, it is very hard to engage with such organizations.