 ##So, in CMI who were the initial students and why they joined CMI, what motivated them to join CMI? 
##Okay, so I can speak for myself maybe, but we were 6 students in the first batch, I joined because I was interested in ISI and I could not join ISI that year, so I thought I will come to CMI and study for ISI, that is actually why I came to CMI. But then I met people who, 3 people in my batch, were Olympiad students, one guy joined IIT Madras, he is an IMO gold medalist, he came to CMI, another guy actually, Tejasvi, another person Devapriya Bajendar, he got admission to ISI but then came to CMI, so it was clear to me that I did not know anything about CMI, but I understood that CMI is a non-trivial place and these people who have chosen to come here, so I decided to stay back, I mean I decided to stay in CMI and not worry about ISI. And others, there is Bhaskar who was my batch mate, he came more or less like me, I think he was interested in Maths and he got the exam, I do not know how much he learnt, but lot of people in the first few years, Tejasvi coming was a big factor because he was well known as a gold medalist and people knew him in the Olympiad circles, so after he came I think lot of people felt that this is some, it is a good place where Tejasvi goes, so we can surely go there, it must be good for Maths, so that was the reason for many people, so there were different kinds of, one people who had exposure in Olympiad, who knew from Tejasvi and others, another set of people who like me who I think were interested in Maths and maybe knew about ISI and through that found about CMI. 
##But at that time CMI did not have any degree, so what was going on in mind of students before joining? 
##Yeah, so again I have not even thought about it, when I joined, I did not know, for example that CMI does not give its own degrees, I did not know this till I joined or much later, I really it was zero, it played zero impact in my mind, but I guess also importantly in my parents mind, they did not care about this, and obviously whoever came did not think of this as a big issue, I think it was sort of some belief that this is a good place, if you do here, you will be fine, and more than that I think people may be at that time did not worry so much about future, I actually had no idea about what I would do in life, I just wanted to do Maths and I came here, so it was the fact that CMI did not give its own degrees, really did not play a big role, maybe people who knew about it, knew about Seshadri and others, and felt that this is something that is not a big deal, Seshadri is involved in this, it will be fine. ##So, basically you are saying that because of Seshadri Karishma, people started joining. 
##That must be true for large number of people, some people did not know anything about it, I did not know who Seshadri was or what he does and so on, and for me it seemed like the best option for me among my other options, so I came without worrying about it, but people who knew about it, definitely would have felt that if Seshadri is involved in this, it would be okay. 
##And what was going on in the mind of parents that their kid is joining a place where the building is also not there, and it is a rented and. 
##So, I am sure this was a, see this is like a small group that came here, so if you look at those students or their parents, they clearly did not worry about it so much that they did not send their children to CMI, so it is not probably usual, maybe most parents were worried about this, which is in fact true even now, lot of students do not come to CMI because of various uncertainties, and if there are uncertainties now, you can imagine 25 years ago, so the set of parents that actually sent their children to CMI is a very small group and clearly they were different, they did not think about this or they at least did not, I mean they thought about it, but it was not, did not cancel the value they put in CMI, in this education, I think they were worried, but maybe some, they did not worry about it, 
##So parents were also kind of, they were taking risk by sending their children, I think so, I think parents were taking risk, and they were kind of well read about the Shashadri, that what kind of Shashadri is there, 
##Yes, I think most parents would have been well read or they were willing to take a chance, if they did not know about Shashadri. 
##So, that is about the initial years, so now after that in middle of years, which is from 2000, let us say 2002 till 2015, so what has changed in students thinking before joining CMI? 
##Yeah, so I left CMI in 2003, so I finished my M.Sc. and left, and I joined again in 2011, so this is exactly the period, more or less the period you mentioned, which I was not here, but when I came back, batches were much bigger, I mean there were 25-30 people, and CMI was in a new place, in the current campus, I never was here, so I was in TN, so BMI has a more permanent place and more established record of undergraduate batches graduating, so I think the initial may be concern was not there, and I do not know, I do not think there was too many, so you asked about students attitude, students attitude, I mean I do not know, there is always, it is difficult to compare with generations, I always felt that we were more serious, I think everybody feels this way, our generation was better or they were different, so I do not know, there is not, one difference I noticed is that students are more aware now, because for example as I said earlier, I did not know about my life, I came to CMI because I liked math, and I really had no other option, or rather among the various options, this is best for me, and I never thought about what I would do after B.Sc. or after I do M.Sc., whereas now I think students when they came, they already have a clear plan, and they want to go to this university, they want to do this particular subject, or this particular course they want to study better, so I think that awareness is more, it is good and also bad, because they are so aware and so narrow minded in your interest, then may be you do not explore other things, I think that is a bad thing, on the other hand it is good to be prepared and have a more clear plan in your life, so that is one thing, so that I think is a difference from our time to 2013, people were more aware, they wanted to get specific things out of CMI, they wanted to do certain things, they were aware, other than that I do not know, there is generation difference, it is nothing with CMI specifically, now students have more options, they can do other things, when we were students, we really did not do much, we attended classes, we talked and occasionally went to movies, theaters like in the old times, now students have computers, mobile phones, so they do lot of other things, they do not come to class also, so that kind of thing is very different, so I think in terms of the activities they have in their life, it is very different, we have very few activities. So you are from, you have seen CMI from initial and till now, so the dream with which CMI started and now, so do you see that dream is achieved or we have deviated somewhere in between? 
##It is definitely achieved, I think one of the dreams may be or goals professionally and other side was to start an undergraduate program and contribute Indian academia and that is really been very successful, beyond that may be dreams, because now we have, so this is the 25th undergraduate batch, now we have CMI graduates in various academic institutions, various companies, various start-ups, so in that way CMI definitely for its size, which is very small if you think about it, like 25, 30 faculty and batch sizes starting from 16 to 40, 50, so the amount of impact CMI had I think is great, so all top institutes if you check, they have CMI alumni as faculty and we have various people working in industry and companies in various kinds of jobs, so in that way yes, CMI dream has been fulfilled and I think in that way I think more will be done, because generally every year we get good students and we have a very active program, undergraduate, masters, PhD, so I think that way dream is definitely alive. And so initially there was kind of problems in getting top talents, because of building was not there, facilities were not there, and now we have building facilities there, so what change you see in the gallery of parents and students from that period and now that period. 
##Yes, so I think because of the track record, I think more than buildings probably people do not care so much, I think what happens to me after I leave or what happens to my child after he or she graduates from CMI is a legitimate and I think a serious concern for parents, so I think parents are generally happy, so I think there is definitely more willingness to send children here than before, of course CMI is always completed with ISI, so students typically go have option to go to ISI also, so these are sort of comparable places, slight differences which depending on what you want to do you come here or there, but I think there is very few cases of students who want to come here, but do not come here because something in CMI is missing, some people go to IITs, because they want a different thing, they want maybe a bigger campus, they want other kind of career choices, but if somebody is interested in maths, I think they come here, there is no inhibition anymore, whereas maybe 20 years ago people who are interested in maths also were not keen to come here, maybe they are reluctant to go to IIT, now I think that is not the case, I believe most, of course there is issue of the child wanting to do mathematics, but parents are not being interested and that is a negotiation that happens between the child and parent and that has nothing to do with CMI, sometimes child is able to convince the parent, sometimes child is not able to convince, but I think now CMI is established name that parents are willing to send unless they want for some other reason, like IIT or something. How many minutes? 
##12 minutes. 12 minutes is done, so we have 8 minutes. Yeah, you wanted to ask something. 
##So you have been from the starting, so do you see any change in this research mentality in students, I can see a lot of students from MSc, not only data science, but other branches are also speaking in placements a lot, do you see any shift in research to investing in placement students? 
##So definitely that is happening in the very recent past, meaning last 4-5 years, because partly because of the data science program, but partly because the way maybe batch sizes have changed in CMI and that is whatever you said is also true for BSc students, I think it is still true that majority of our BSc students and MSc CS and MSc Math students want to pursue research, I mean want to go at least for PhD, and I think 3-4 generally go, but now because we have much larger batch, we have now 40-50 students, and I think naturally some of them realize after coming here that maybe this is not what I want to do, maybe I want to pursue PhD or academic line, I do not want to be a faculty member, I do not want to be a researcher all my life. So now there is other options for them, and generally my impression is that these people are smart, and they are easily finding options, and they realize that they actually have an asset, and they approach industry. So now that is becoming more, for sure it is becoming, earlier the numbers were tiny or zero in fact, now it is changing, I would say predominantly BSc and undergraduate and MSc CS, MSc Maths people want to do at least PhD, then they sometimes quit and go to industry. Now little more, every batch has small number, but now zero number, who want to pursue, which I think as an institution also we are fine with this, because see now it is easier for them to do, and they are not going to be like, you know, parents which send children, earlier the problem was, what if the child realizes after 3 years that they do not want to do academics, and it was a difficult question, because then of course they can do something, these people are smart, so they can do something. Now we can provide them, in the third year we have electives, in the second year MSc we have electives, so they can switch, and then actually do well. So this has changed, I think this is noticeable. 
##So how do you see the future of CMI, in terms of scale, top students, talent and faculty? 
##So, I mean, it is sort of, it is easy to say, it is just continuing the same way, that is an easy answer, and I think that is actually a good answer, because CMIT has been doing well, and we would like to continue in the same direction. May be small increases in size, but actually we are comfortable with the current numbers, like 50 BSc, so 50 plus 50 plus 50 for BSc, 3 batches, and about 50 for data science, and 20 for MSc, Maths and CS. So, I do not anticipate significant change in the students' strength. Faculty, we have about 39, close to 40, may be we would like few more, may be reach 50, but, so these are all small increases, so I think broadly we will be at this magnitude for near future, and we would like to continue the same. Research is always going to be the core strength of CMIT, the Maths, CS and Physics research, and of course we do have other options like we discussed, which we want to encourage and we want to keep as an option for our students. So, broadly the same that we are doing should continue, with small changes in the number of faculty and students. 
##And so, this is the last question from my side. So, you were a student here. Yes. You went outside, then came back here, and you are continuing. So, what motivated you to do CMI, you were 25, but you went there, back and coming here. So, what is the motivation of coming back and continuing here? 
##Yeah, so coming back of course, I wanted to be in academics, I wanted to be a mathematician and I wanted to come back to India. So, I was in the US and I wanted to come back to India, that is a general personal choice. So, I did try for various places, but CMIT was always something that I loved and I wanted of course to be here. And once I got a job here, I was very happy to come back. And as I said, I wanted to be in academic line and I wanted to come back to India, and CMIT is one of the top places in India. Personally, I have very fond memories of this place and the people here. So, I was very happy to come back, because the role has changed, but I have the sense that I was a student and I benefited a lot from the institute, from the people in the institute, and I have a chance to do the same for the students as well as the institute. So, I am very happy to be back for that reason, to have a special connection to this place. Because I was not, I mean for me, I do not know how life would be like if you do not do certain things. You want to never say how, what kind of life, but for CMIT, the fact that I got into CMIT was like the, you know there are two paths you can take in life. This is like a big thing in my life, and the reason that, I mean the fact that I came here and studied here was a big turning point for me. So, I feel happy to be here every day. This is a really nice place, so I am really, I am very happy to come here and work. Because it is academically one of the top places, it gives us freedom to do what we want to do, and I have wonderful students. Every year there are great students who come to interact with me, and it is a joy. So, I am happy of course to be back here. So, what do you give to the students? I mean you were students once here. Yeah. So, do you, I mean you had, so at that point of time, some things, some good things will be there, some bad things will be there. Right. So, how? So, I, see one good thing when we were students was we were very small. We were six people in our batch. So, I think teachers were able to give much more personalized attention, and we were very close to them. I realize that that is very difficult here, because batch sizes are not small, still small, but not like six or ten. So, in that way I cannot individually keep talking to them and maintain a relationship that I had with my teachers. But still I would like to talk to them. I mean I hope I would convey that to them that they can talk to me about any problem. It is not same of course, I mean there is a gap. They do not feel maybe of me as an equal of course. I am not an equal for them, but maybe they do not feel so comfortable with me. I sometimes wish they are comfortable, but there is this gap that I cannot bridge. But more below that I feel like I am trying to help them, but as much as possible trying to understand what their needs are, what their feelings are, because I was also not a student. Though in a very different circumstance, I mean we were not here in a campus like this. We were staying in some apartments. CMI was in like a building, fourth floor. So, it is very different, but still talking about courses and what they go through. I try to help them, but it is not the same. I mean I always feel that I do not give them whatever my teachers gave me. So, I do not write them flawingly or in the situation. Is there any specific thing you can point out that you got this and you were not willing that? No, so it is not. So, generally like for example, we had a very close relationship with my teachers. We used to go to their houses for lunch, dinner and they used to hang out with us. So, it was very comfortable like you know teacher, but still very close personal relationship. So, obviously I do not have that with my students. I mean you know like I cannot invite them right because there is 25 people in my batch. In 2011 and now there are 45 people. So, we try to talk, but it is not the same. So, that way it is there is a gap between us. It is only limited to CMI and also occasional conversations like this. Some students are a bit more open. I try to talk to them, but generally as a group I do not know beyond some point I cannot establish a type of. Any advice, any final comments to students and parents? Yeah, I know. So, parents of course, I think CMI is a good place that you do not need to worry about it. If your child is interested in maths, this is one of the best places. I mean anything more is you do not need to worry about. For students I can say if you want to do maths or computer science or physics, you come to CMI, but then you have to work hard. So, one thing I have told my students in class also is if you study in IIT, it does not actually you do not need to study in these sections. Because IIT degree has some value. If you just finish your course, you get an IIT degree, you get a job. It does not matter what you learned or what you studied. Whereas, CMI is not like that. CMI is valuable because you studied and learned something. So, you come to CMI, you have to study. You cannot goof off like IIT. So, that is what I tell my students that you have to work hard. Because CMI BSc degree is really not important. Nobody cares about it. It is not like IIT. So, you have to work hard and presumably you have come to CMI because you like it. And you like the subject and you like this kind of mathematics or computer science or physics. So, you have to work hard. So, that is something we should keep in mind always. Thank you.
